so as long as you're trying to solve
that problem in
the game that the anxiety is playing for
you it's like
you know playing against the house in
a casino it's a game you're designed to
lose
how do i get out of this thought loop
when i am quiet
am i being boring and when i'm talking
am i being annoying
okay if we think about this for a second
this is brilliant by the way
so let's start by just understanding you
know where does the root
of this come from right so like do you
guys see how this thought
am i being boring like comes from a
presumption
that people don't like you or that
you're not delivering value
and this too comes with a presumption
that you're not delivering value
like you guys see how both of these
questions even though
the behavior is the exact opposite
like they share the same root so this is
really important to understand
so a lot of times people think that
their
anxiety is dependent on a particular
thought
right so like my mind produces the
thought for me am i being boring by
being quiet
or am i being annoying by talking
and so what we do is we focus on the
content of the anxiety what is like the
worry that we have
right am i being boring am i being
annoying like both of those are the
content of the mind
but if you kind of think about it that
doesn't make any logical sense because
if you're worried about being
boring the solution to that is to talk
and then if you start talking
theoretically that problem should be
fixed you're no longer boring
but you wind up being either your mind
your mind actually tells you now that
we're talking
am i being annoying maybe i should be
more quiet so from a logical perspective
and from a thinking perspective
it's like a lose-lose situation there's
no way you can win
because your mind is producing for you
thoughts and worries and concerns
which theoretically should lead to a
particular behavior or solution
but even if you engage in that
behavioral solution you're still screwed
so like how on earth do you deal with
that
and the key thing here is to go back to
the root that produces these thoughts
okay so like this is where you know as
long as you
feel internally emotionally
that you are not going to like be
pleasant to be around if you are
insecure about you know what value you
bring to like other people's like social
service like social like situations if
you can't really like serve to be like
socially useful to other people
as long as you hold that belief that
belief will spawn off
thoughts no matter the circumstance does
that make sense
so it's kind of interesting because like
a lot of people will will start
they'll try to solve the individual
thought but like
what this this picture beautifully
illustrates is brilliant right
is that you can try to solve as many
problems as you want to your your mind
if you're socially anxious
is still is like never going to be
appeased right when i'm quiet am i being
boring oh talk more
and then when you're talking you're like
oh my god am i being annoying be quiet
more
you can ping pong back and forth through
this as much as you want to and you'll
never fix it
so what do you do about it what you do
is first of all recognize the process
that your mind is going to like give you
these thoughts kind of no matter what
and as long as you're playing at the
level of thought you're never going to
fix it and this is why people get stuck
right it becomes a loop you start
looping because you're like bouncing
around
up here instead what you need to do is
go down to the root up
tell yourself notice first of all oh my
mind is doing that thing again where
it's like
behaving at an intellectual level but
this
intellectual content of my mind is being
fueled by the emotion
and so instead of trying to solve that
problem up here just ask yourself how do
i
feel right now what is the emotional
energy that is driving this anxiety
and once you start working at that level
like so you may
discover for example oh like i'm just
afraid that people aren't gonna like me
and i'm not confident about myself
because i've been in like
isolation for a year and i feel like
socially rusty
i'm concerned that these people might
not like me and then you can kind of sit
with that and it's like it's not about a
particular manifestation it's sort of
like okay like
i feel afraid that people don't like me
and this is why it's useful to work with
someone like a therapist or coach or
something like that right
if you really have social anxiety i'd
recommend seeing you know a clinician
if you have like a diagnosed social
anxiety
and then you know once you start sitting
with those feelings working on that
underlying emotion
then what you can do is like as the
emotion kind of kind of starts to like
empty out and decompress
the thoughts above will start to crumble
so it's kind of interesting but like
it's it's tricky because we sort of
think like okay how do i deal with this
thought loop because it keeps on looping
up there
and instead of like dealing with the
root loop it's like you know how do i
start move
how do i stop moving in this loop well
like the answer to stop moving in the
loop is like you have to like
empty your gas can right because as long
as you've got fuel your mind will loop
in that way those rational thoughts
those logical thoughts those anxious
thoughts will keep on looping
and you will keep on trying to problem
solve okay
and that problem solving will never
actually lead to well i'm not i guess i
can't say never
but it will it's not really consistently
going to lead to anything whereas the
real money
isn't actually is in dealing with the
underlying emotion that's fueling the
anxiety
okay so a good example of this so we
have a we have a
a video entirely about this on dr k's
guides
so this is the anxiety module okay just
real quick
so there's uh by the way there's a video
actually on thought loops
so if you guys are there's but that's
not the one i'm thinking about this is
what i call feeding the beast
okay so sometimes in our minds there are
actually a couple of videos about this
there are a couple ways that we deal
with anxiety and one way that we deal
with anxiety is by like
trying to rationally solve that problem
right we can try to solve the problem of
when i'm quiet am i being boring and and
when i'm talking
am i am i being annoying so as long as
you're trying to solve
that problem in the game that the
anxiety is playing for you
it's like you know playing against the
house
in a casino it's a game you're designed
to lose
because it's not an intellectual problem
so you can come up with as many
intellectual solutions as you want to
and it's not going to work this is the
other problem with anxiety right is
because we have a bunch of like five
heads out there that are like
okay i just need two dot dot dot i
figured everything out
like i just need to develop confidence i
just need to do this i just need to do
this
i figured everything out up here and
they try to do it and never works
it's because all of your energy is being
spent on sort of like the symptom
as opposed to the cause so get down to
the roots of your insecurity or your
lack of confidence
and notice in that moment instead of
playing the game with the anxiety up top
notice like what am i actually feeling
right now like where does this
insecurity actually
come from right and as you kind of do
that work as you start to notice
oh this is just my anxiety producing all
of these thoughts and worries it's not
even me
that's another useful technique that you
can do is notice what is your anxiety
versus you and you're like oh that's
just my anxiety it's like no big deal
like it's gonna act up again and you can
even anticipate it so the next time you
go into a social situation
you know okay so my anxiety is gonna
start producing thoughts
i know it sounds weird but as you
anticipate it and then the anxiety comes
you don't fight it because remember most
of the time we try to fight anxiety
which just feeds the loop because you're
adding
uh gas to your gas tank so instead what
you want to do is take a step back and
just be like okay
we knew this was coming oh wow this
anxiety is really powerful today
is it so powerful that i need to leave
or can i give it like half an hour and
hopefully i can start to have fun
when you start dealing with your anxiety
like this you kind of take the steam out
of it you take the energy out of it
it'll kind of calm down and the thoughts
will actually stop on their own right so
someone's saying
you have to fight the idea that you need
to demonstrate value to others i think
that's the right
sentiment i wouldn't encourage fighting
it
right so i wouldn't encourage like i
know it's an
interesting nuance here but i would
notice
that that is a false belief so i i think
generally speaking
and fighting your mind and anxiety makes
things
worse for most people as they've learned
they may conquer it for a time but it
comes
roaring back the next day so i'd
encourage people to just notice oh like
there's a part of me that feels like i
need to demonstrate my value to others
it feels that very strongly i feel like
super inadequate and i feel like a waste
of space
unless i demonstrate my value to other
people
and then you don't go and bully that
part of you you're not like
screw you believe in yourself
dumbass you should believe in yourself
more
why are you so stupid start believing in
yourself more
you know it's like you got to be careful
there so you can conquer it for a time
but generally speaking my experience has
been that
encouraging people to notice it is
actually like
more potent right so it's interesting
it's tricky gets tricky
there is value to sometimes fighting and
overcoming your anxiety though like so
it's just like
generally speaking people tend to know
how to do that relatively well
and it's this part that people generally
speaking need to learn